# The Structure of the Freon Project

This repository is a mono-repo, containing the source code for a number of
packages that are released standalone, although, of course, they are strongly related.
The content of this repository is structured as follows.

## The `core` and `core-svelte` Packages

The `core` package contains all framework code that is written in TypeScript only. 
Whereas, the `core-svelte` package contains framework code that deals with HTML and CSS,
in the form of Svelte components (https://svelte.dev/).

Together they form the basis of every DSL system that is generated by Freon. In fact, you 
could argue that the core packages together contain everything that actually could be 
generated but is so generic that it would be the same for every DSL.

Note that both packages are released as npm packages.

## The `meta` Package

The `meta` package contains all code that reads the Freon definition files (.ast, etc.), and 
generates the code specific for the DSL defined in those files. It is written in TypeScript, but
also contains two types of parsers. 

The parser for the .typer file is actually generated by Freon, and uses 
AGL (https://github.com/dhakehurst/net.akehurst.language). This was an 
attempt to bootstrap the system. Later, we decided that bootstrapping was not a good idea because 
the users of the meta package are language engineers, whereas the users of a Freon editor are
non-IT people. Both types of users have quite different requirements and expectations.

The parsers for the other definition files are build using Peggy (https://peggyjs.org/).

The CLI is build using Rushstack (https://github.com/microsoft/rushstack#readme).

## The `samples` Packages

In the folder `samples` a number of packages are gathered that are examples of DSLs generated by Freon. 
They are used during development to test various aspects of Freon in a runtime editor.

## The `server` Package

The `server` package contains the code that implements the Freon server. Furthermore, it contains a folder
named `modelstore` which contains the models used when running one of the sample DSLs from `samples/*`. The
implementation relies heavily on the `koa` framework (https://koajs.com/).

## The `test` Package

The `test` package contains a number of Freon project that serve as tests for various aspects of the system.
The tests itself are based on `vitest` (https://vitest.dev/).

## The `webapp-*` and `weblib-*` Packages



